---
layout: post
title: The First Half of a Coding BootCamp
---

<p>To have as much experience as I have, I felt I needed more to be skillful in this digital day and age.  I have been a bartender, producer, assistant director, film editor, teacher and tutor.  My life experience speaks for itself.  I still didn't fully understand how front-end and certainly back-end developing worked.  I wanted to learn, so I ventured into the next step of educating myself.</p>
<p>I came back from teaching abroad and was introduced to the new idea of the bootcamp.  I wasn't interested in another degree, I wanted another skill so the bootcamp seemed like the perfect avenue to learn coding.  I had quite a few options.  Some "not-to-be-named" bootcamps promised employment after 12 weeks and others had promised employment after 6 months.  I needed a more flexible schedule to be able to work as well.  I finally came across Bloc.  Bloc's program is a year long bootcamp also guaranteeing employment after the program.  This seemed like a feasible option for my work schedule.</p>
<p>So, I have been studying for 6 months.  This first module was awesome.  I learned HTML and CSS fairly easily.  I was excited to learn more.  Javascript definitely was challenging, as most learning developers discovered.  I started feeling discouraged.  I wasn't picking up the material as easily as I had before.  Learning had always come pretty easy for me, so I knew I was in for a lot of studying and hard work.  I was very excited for something challenging.  Living abroad for nearly seven years was challenging, but it changed me completely.  I accepted the challenge.  I finally completed the first module.  I did fail on my first attempt.  I regrouped, studied again and new what to expect the second time around.  I passed!  Actually, I barely passed but I took what I got.  Onto the next module.</p>
<p>So, now I am almost done with the second module and here is where I am at.  I failed my first attempt at the assessment again.  I failed by a half of a point, AGAIN!  I don't know what happened this time.  I studied very diligently for over two weeks.  I made silly mistakes.  The style of testing for Bloc is an interview style.  The first assessment, I could see the mentor testing me.  This second time, it was just an audio conference.  If the assessment was a written test, I know I would have done better.  I work really well when I'm on my own.  That's what interested me in web developing.  Well, onto the next try.  Hopefully, I can get the bare minimum score to pass this assessment.</p>
<p>I was, technically still am, so ready to quit.  I felt that the bootcamp style of learning was not the best way to learn this new skill.  Maybe I should have gone for an associate's degree.  To keep a long story a little less long, it would not have made sense to quit for monetary reasons.  I had completed too much not to finish.  At this point, I am 25% behind time completion.  Since, I know I am going to finish, I'm just trying to learn as much as I can.  I have my second module assessment coming up and, to be honest, I'm not very confident.  </p>
<p>I know many people feel this way while learning programming and front-end developing.  Joining online forums and groups has helped a lot with regards to staying motivated.  I hope others can know the struggle and still want to keep on keeping on!</p>
<p>-Brooke Rodenhizer</p>
