---
layout: post
title: "Gissues"
---

<p>So, of course developers have working knowledge of Git.  If a new developer stumbles on this post and is not aware, Git is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects.  Git is accessed through the command line or github.com.  A good source to learn Git is <a href='https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1'>this Github Tutorial</a>.  I have only been using it for the Bloc curriculum but it can be used for much larger networks to keep track of uploads and changes to projects.  Through Github.com, these updates and changes can be accessed and monitored by others in your network.</p>
<p>I thought I would take this opportunity to share some tips and tricks I have learned by using Git.  I have succeeded and struggled with Git.  I am by no means any kind of expert but I have learned a few things to help those who may struggle with the same Git issues or "Gissues" as I like to call them.</p>
<p>So, I'll just list the usual commands to push to your repository and then I'll discuss some things that can easily trip you up.  Well, I'll discuss some things that have easily tripped me up.</p>
<p><code>git init</code></p>
<p><code>git status</code></p>
<p><code>git add 'file name'</code></p>
<p><code>git commit -m "message for commit"</code></p>
<p><code>git push</code></p>
<p>Of course, this is bare bones git.  Git is such a beast and I've only scraped the surface.  So, I have had the most trouble when switching between repositories.  Often, I am one commit ahead or behind the master branch.  Git always suggests <code>git pull</code>.  If a commit is ahead or behind, I have found to get errors when I try <code>git pull</code>.</p>
<p>So, of course make sure you're in the right directory.  In the command line, the command is <code>cd directory</code>.  I kept forgetting to move up to the directory the repository was initialized in.  I'm aware that these are very silly errors, but I'm just hoping someone with the same spacey brain can get some use out of these instructions.  If the directory you're repository was initialized is the parent directory of the one you're in, then use <code>cd ..</code>.  If the directory you're repository was initialized in is the grandparent directory of the directory you're in, then use <code>cd ../..</code>.
<p>I have a wonderful cousin who racked his brain a few times over this particular "gissue."  <code>Git status</code> claimed to be on the master branch.  My wonderful cousin tried to checkout to the master branch just for kicks.  So, he typed in <code>git checkout master</code>.  That was it.  Whatever the "gissue" was, was no more.  I have no idea why that particular code worked.  I have had no need to use it since either, but I will try it if the "gissue" ever comes up again.</p>
<p>If you ever find yourself commits behind or ahead, check that you're in the right directory.  I know that sounds simple, but it can help a lot.  I had to switch between multiple projects with multiple directories.  Sometimes, you can just forget which directory you initialized your repository in.</p>

<p>-Brooke Rodenhizer</p>
